Before we move on though,
another very specific type of 2D imaging is called fundal
imaging and it looks at the integrity of the tiny vessels in the eye.
The fundus is the interior surface of the eye,
and images of it can be taken to diagnose diabetic retinopathy.
In this condition, blood vessels at the back of the eye become damaged.
We won't be covering this type of 2D imaging in this course,
but it is important to know because there are many
open-source fundal imaging data sets available for
machine learning imaging researchers and there are also
many academic and industry groups that are working in this space.
There's still one more entirely different branch of
2D medical imaging that we won't cover much in this course.
But it's worth mentioning as there is
a big area in the worlds of applying AI to microscopy.
Microscopy refers to physical slides of biological material
taken from a patient that can be viewed at the cell level through a microscope.
These slides often have a stain applied to them that
causes different cell structures to appear in different colors.
These stains help pathologists tell the difference
between normal cell structures and pathological structures.
Since these images are not acquired with a digital machine,
they are not inherently digital like X-rays are.
As a result, an additional step of digitizing
these images is required before applying AI.
One thing that's important to note with digital pathology is that it is not interpreted
by a radiologist as other 2D images are in the previous workflow we introduced.
With microscopy, a cell sample is first taken from the patient,
it is then interpreted by a pathologist, not a radiologist,
who generates a report that is then read and ingested by the diagnosing and care team.
Note that the digitization process is not
necessary for this interpretation by a pathologist.
The efforts in this area to digitize are
being made specifically to increase the potential for
AI for medical imaging in this space and also for better microscopy sample archiving.